# Doc2OracLL: Investigating the Impact of Documentation on LLM-Based Test Oracle Generation

**Authors**: Hossain, Soneya Binta and Taylor, Raygan and Dwyer, Matthew

**Abstract**:

Code documentation is a critical artifact of software development, bridging human understanding and machine-   readable code. Beyond aiding developers in code comprehension and maintenance, documentation also plays   a critical role in automating various software engineering tasks, such as test oracle generation (TOG). In Java,   Javadoc comments offer structured, natural language documentation embedded directly within the source   code, typically describing functionality, usage, parameters, return values, and exceptional behavior. While   prior research has explored the use of Javadoc comments in TOG alongside other information, such as the   method under test (MUT), their potential as a stand-alone input source, the most relevant Javadoc components,   and guidelines for writing effective Javadoc comments for automating TOG remain less explored.   In this study, we investigate the impact of Javadoc comments on TOG through a comprehensive analysis.   We begin by fine-tuning 10 large language models using three different prompt pairs to assess the role of   Javadoc comments alongside other contextual information. Next, we systematically analyze the impact of   different Javadoc comment’s components on TOG. To evaluate the generalizability of Javadoc comments   from various sources, we also generate them using the GPT-3.5 model. We perform a thorough bug detection   study using Defects4J dataset to understand their role in real-world bug detection. Our results show that   incorporating Javadoc comments improves the accuracy of test oracles in most cases, aligning closely with   ground truth. We find that Javadoc comments alone can match or even outperform approaches that utilize   the MUT implementation. Additionally, we identify that the description and the return tag are the most   valuable components for TOG. Finally, our approach, when using only Javadoc comments, detects between   19\% and 94\% more real-world bugs in Defects4J than prior methods, establishing a new state-of-the-art. To   further guide developers in writing effective documentation, we conduct a detailed qualitative study on when   Javadoc comments are helpful or harmful for TOG.

**Link**: [Read Paper](https://doi.org/10.1145/3729354)

**Labels**: [program testing](../../labels/program_testing.md), [general testing](../../labels/general_testing.md), [empirical study](../../labels/empirical_study.md)
