# Enhancing Security in Third-Party Library Reuse – Comprehensive Detection of 1-day Vulnerability through Code Patch Analysis

**Authors**: Shangzhi Xu and Jialiang Dong and Weiting Cai and Juanru Li and Arash Shaghaghi and Nan Sun and Siqi Ma

**Abstract**:

Nowadays, software development progressesrapidly to incorporate new features. To facilitate such growthand provide convenience for developers when creating andupdating software, reusing open-source software (i.e., thirdpartylibrary reuses) has become one of the most effectiveand efficient methods. Unfortunately, the practice of reusingthird-party libraries (TPLs) can also introduce vulnerabilities(known as 1-day vulnerabilities) because of the low maintenanceof TPLs, resulting in many vulnerable versions remaining inuse. If the software incorporating these TPLs fails to detect theintroduced vulnerabilities and leads to delayed updates, it willexacerbate the security risks. However, the complicated codedependencies and flexibility of TPL reuses make the detection of1-day vulnerability a challenging task. To support developers insecurely reusing TPLs during software development, we designand implement VULTURE, an effective and efficient detectiontool, aiming at identifying 1-day vulnerabilities that arise fromthe reuse of vulnerable TPLs. It first executes a database creationmethod, TPLFILTER, which leverages the Large LanguageModel (LLM) to automatically build a unique database for thetargeted platform. Instead of relying on code-level similaritycomparison, VULTURE employs hashing-based comparison toexplore the dependencies among the collected TPLs and identifythe similarities between the TPLs and the target projects.Recognizing that developers have the flexibility to reuse TPLsexactly or in a custom manner, VULTURE separately conductsversion-based comparison and chunk-based analysis to capturefine-grained semantic features at the function levels. We appliedVULTURE to 10 real-world projects to assess its effectivenessand efficiency in detecting 1-day vulnerabilities. VULTUREsuccessfully identified 175 vulnerabilities from 178 reused TPLs.Nowadays, software development progressesrapidly to incorporate new features. To facilitate such growthand provide convenience for developers when creating andupdating software, reusing open-source software (i.e., thirdpartylibrary reuses) has become one of the most effectiveand efficient methods. Unfortunately, the practice of reusingthird-party libraries (TPLs) can also introduce vulnerabilities(known as 1-day vulnerabilities) because of the low maintenanceof TPLs, resulting in many vulnerable versions remaining inuse. If the software incorporating these TPLs fails to detect theintroduced vulnerabilities and leads to delayed updates, it willexacerbate the security risks. However, the complicated codedependencies and flexibility of TPL reuses make the detection of1-day vulnerability a challenging task. To support developers insecurely reusing TPLs during software development, we designand implement VULTURE, an effective and efficient detectiontool, aiming at identifying 1-day vulnerabilities that arise fromthe reuse of vulnerable TPLs. It first executes a database creationmethod, TPLFILTER, which leverages the Large LanguageModel (LLM) to automatically build a unique database for thetargeted platform. Instead of relying on code-level similaritycomparison, VULTURE employs hashing-based comparison toexplore the dependencies among the collected TPLs and identifythe similarities between the TPLs and the target projects.Recognizing that developers have the flexibility to reuse TPLsexactly or in a custom manner, VULTURE separately conductsversion-based comparison and chunk-based analysis to capturefine-grained semantic features at the function levels. We appliedVULTURE to 10 real-world projects to assess its effectivenessand efficiency in detecting 1-day vulnerabilities. VULTUREsuccessfully identified 175 vulnerabilities from 178 reused TPLs.

**Link**: [Read Paper](https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-paper/enhancing-security-in-third-party-library-reuse-comprehensive-detection-of-1-day-vulnerability-through-code-patch-analysis)

**Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [bug detection](../../labels/bug_detection.md), [specification inference](../../labels/specification_inference.md)
