# LLM Compiler: Foundation Language Models for Compiler Optimization

**Authors**: Cummins, Chris and Seeker, Volker and Grubisic, Dejan and Roziere, Baptiste and Gehring, Jonas and Synnaeve, Gabriel and Leather, Hugh

**Abstract**:

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across a variety of software engineering and coding tasks. However, their application in the domain of code and compiler optimization remains underexplored. Training LLMs is resource-intensive, requiring substantial GPU hours and extensive data collection, which can be prohibitive. To address this gap, we introduce LLM Compiler, a suite of robust, openly available, pre-trained models specifically designed for compiler tasks. Built on the foundation of Code Llama, LLM Compiler enhances the understanding of compiler intermediate representations (IRs), assembly language, and optimization techniques. The models have been trained on a vast corpus of 546 billion tokens of LLVM-IR and assembly code and have undergone instruction fine-tuning to interpret compiler behavior. To demonstrate the utility of these research tools, we also present fine-tuned versions of the models with enhanced capabilities in optimizing code size and disassembling from x86_64 and ARM assembly back into LLVM-IR. These achieve 77 % of the optimising potential of an autotuning search, and 45 % disassembly round trip (14 % exact match). LLM Compiler is released under a bespoke commercial license to allow wide reuse and is available in two sizes: 7 billion and 13 billion parameters. Our aim is to provide scalable, cost-effective foundational models for further research and development in compiler optimization by both academic researchers and industry practitioners. Since we released LLM Compiler the community has quantized, repackaged, and downloaded the models over 250k times.

**Link**: [Read Paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3708493.3712691)

**Labels**: [static analysis](../../labels/static_analysis.md), [program optimization](../../labels/program_optimization.md), [code model](../../labels/code_model.md), [code model training](../../labels/code_model_training.md), [IR code model](../../labels/IR_code_model.md)
